Re-Introducing Protocol Buffer Representation (#626)
cloudevents/spec: protobuf-format.md

interpreted as described in [RFC2119][rfc2119].

### 1.2 Content-Type

There is no official IANA *media-type* designation for protobuf, as such this
specification uses 'application/x-protobuf' to identify such content.

## 2. Type System

The CloudEvents type system is mapped to protobuf as follows :

| CloudEvents   | protobuf |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Boolean       | [boolean][proto-scalars] |
| Integer       | [sint32][proto-scalars] |
| String        | [string][proto-scalars] |
| Binary        | [bytes][proto-scalars] |
| URI           | [string][proto-scalars] following [RFC 3986 §4.3][rfc3986-section43]|
| URI-reference | [string][proto-scalars] following [RFC 3986 §4.1][rfc3986-section41] |
| Timestamp     | [Timestamp][proto-timestamp]  |

## 2. Attributes

This section defines how CloudEvents attributes are represented in the protobuf
[schema][proto-schema].

Required and Optional attributes are represented explicitly as protobuf fields.

CloudEvent extension attributes are represented using a map construct enabling
direct support of the CloudEvent [type system][ce-types].

```proto

> map<string, CloudEventAttribute> extensions = 1;

Reviewer: This map is labeled `extensions`. Are the core attributes handled the same way, or by unique tags?

The example at the end suggests that known attributes are assigned unique tags.

Author: originally I had all the defined attributes in a _map_ structure, I flipped to a model when the defined attributes are explicit (as in the JSON schema).

So in that model only extension attributes need to be carried in the _map_.

Reviewer: My concern is about what happens when core attributes are added, e.g. in a 1.1 spec.

Clients which were built before the 1.1 spec will map these attributes into the `extensions` map, while post-1.1 clients will map them into a unique tag-assigned field. Recipients of messages will then need to write complicated logic to map pre-1.1 messages to post-1.1 messages, losing most of the benefit of code auto-generation for protocol buffers.

Yes, this is a "perfect is the enemy of the good" case, but my experience has been that not planning for expansion tends to lead to "everything was good until we tried to touch something, and now it's all terrible."

Another acceptable scenario is to accept that we can't add further attributes to the 1.0 proto message definition, and all additional attributes (whether currently documented extensions or not-yet-defined extensions) must be stored in `extensions`.

The last option is to keep a global tag number registry mapping extension names to tags, but that only helps humans and doesn't really help conversion gateways, which would need to be able to load the list dynamically when transforming a message between proto and other encodings.

Author: Maybe there's a half-way house solution where all the 'required' attributes are explicitly define but the optional ones aren't, on the basis that we can't add any required attributes without changing the major version..

message CloudEventAttribute {

    oneof attr_oneof {
      bool ce_boolean = 1;
      sfixed32 ce_integer = 2;
      string ce_string = 3;
      bytes ce_binary = 4;
      string ce_uri = 5;
      string ce_uri_reference = 6;

>       google.protobuf.Timestamp ce_timestamp = 7;

Reviewer: How are unknown attribute keys handled? If I get a string for "datakey" with value "/path", should it be encoded as `ce_string`, `ce_binary`, or `ce_uri_reference`? (The same is also true for timestamp)

Author: The originator of the event presumably know the 'type', so they wold populate the extension attribute accordingly.

I'll add an example...

Reviewer: What about a component which is adapting structured JSON input from e.g. AWS Kinesis to gRPC transport? This sort of intermediate component may not be aware of the types of all extensions (by design), but without type information from the upstream transport, a `datakey` attribute might be transcribed to a different encoding than the recipient is expecting.

Reviewer: For an example of what this looks like in another typed transport see the [AMQP spec](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0/amqp-protocol-binding.md#3132-amqp-application-property-values), where clients need to be prepared to accept either `string` or typed values for each attribute.

Author: I think we're conflating 'transport' and 'format' .. this spec is only applicable in structured mode and in those situations the payload is opaque (apologies if I mis-stated that somewhere, now you've got me worried).

In AMQP this would be transported as a application/cloudevents+x-protobuf content type.

It'd be the gRPC transport specification (if we consider it a transport) that would define how binary and structured payloads would be exchanged.

Switching between different structured formats (JSON->Proto, Avro->JSON) is a higher-order function and not a concern of the transport binding I believe.

Reviewer: Sorry, I thought this was handled, but I'm looking back, and it looks like we talked past each other.

Assume the following _structured_ JSON CloudEvent with no payload:

```json
{
    "specversion" : "1.0",
    "type" : "com.example.someevent",
    "source" : "/mycontext",
    "id" : "A234-1234-1234",
    "time" : "2018-04-05T17:31:00Z",
    "comexampleextension1" : "2018-04-05T17:31:00Z",
}
```

What does the equivalent _structured_ Proto CloudEvent look like? (using text format for readability)

```
id: "A234-1234-1234"
source: "/mycontext"
spec_version: "1.0"
type: "com.example.someevent"
attributes: [{
  key: "time"
  value: {
    ce_timestamp: {...}
}, {
  key: "comexampleextension1"
  value: {
    ce_string: "...."
  }
}]
```

Alternately, `comexamplextension1` could be encoded as:
```
{
  key: "comexampleextension1"
  value: {
    ce_timestamp: { ... }
  }
}
```

If there is a generic JSON -> Proto CloudEvents bridge:
* How does it know how to encode `comexampleextension1`?
* Do all downstream clients need to be able to handle both `ce_timestamp` and `ce_string` format?
* Does the same issue apply to the other types?

This is somewhat of a generic problem with the CloudEvents extension model, but mentioning it again here.

>       google.protobuf.Timestamp ce_timestamp = 7;

Reviewer 2: If we use `google.protobuf.Timestamp` here, we will always be using UTC for the timezone, while the spec says that it should be a timezoned datetime (which cares an extra information and can be used to align the notifications schedule, for example).

Author: with respect to your prior comment (which I can't comment on directly)..

1 - I think I updated the spec after you commented, the context attributes defined in the spec are now represented explicitly.
2 - Again, with the re-structure I don't think that's an issue. In Proto typically everything is optional;i believe there is a way to flag 'required' by Proto purists may object :-)
3 - For me it's about retiring the type information, a receiver can determine that the context is URI because the value is in that field.

This might be a question for the larger group, my interpretation was that the intention was to ensure timezone information was included so representing the value as UTC met that requirement form my point of view.

On closer inspection there's an implication that timezones MUST be communicated as strings - which seems a bit inefficient especially when native representations are available.

Reviewer 2: Re optional/required:

https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/blob/master/docs/field_presence.md

Reviewer: Proto2 has a notion of optional/required semantics. These were dropped in proto3 due to operational experience -- as protocol buffers evolved over time, fields which were previously "required" might no longer make sense, but converting a required field to optional was an extensive multi-stage rollout process across all consumers of the protocol buffer, even those which did not use the fields explicitly (like intermediate proxies).

Reviewer 3: Two notes here on details, while I'm still looking at the broader conversation. (Sorry for parachuting in; a colleague pointed me at this issue, and this particular subthread touches on things I know about.)

While proto3 still doesn't have "required" semantics, it has very recently regained the idea of "optional" fields. The word "optional" is pretty much historical now, but it's really about "does this field support the notion of being implicitly set vs explicitly set". An optional int32 proto3 field that has been explicitly set to 0 by user code is serialized even though 0 is the default value. A regular int32 proto3 field will never have its default value serialized, whether it was set by the user or not.

Separately, on time zones, I'd like us to be really clear on terminology. RFC 3339 does *not* allow the time zone to be conveyed. It allows a UTC offset to be specified. They're not the same thing, and that affects scheduling. If I send an event with timestamp that is in UTC+1 (as the UK is right now), and I promise to send another event one day later in local time, you can't tell whether that will be another timestamp with an offset of +1 or not. It's unfortunate that RFC 3339 (and ISO-8601 before it) conflates UTC offsets and time zones, but let's try not to in any CloudEvents documentation :)

Reviewer 3: This part definitely needs more discussion - if the format needs to be able to store a timestamp *with offset from UTC* as per RFC 3339, `Timestamp` will not do that on its own. We could create our own message for that concept, but it wouldn't be as easy to handle - `Timestamp` has built-in goodness in terms of a readable JSON representation, and utility methods in at least some languages (e.g. C#).

I would suggest that in retrospect, the CE spec deciding that a timestamp doesn't *just* represent an instant in time may have been a mistake - but it's unclear what we need to do now. Being able to convert between formats without loss of information would certainly be a useful property...

    }
}
```

> NOTE: Field assignment numbers are non-normative.

Reviewer: Field assignment numbers absolutely *have* to be defined by the spec. Proto wire format encodes tag + type as a prefix, so if the tag doesn't match the expected type, the entire message will be discarded during decoding.

Author: I think my comment was mis-leading ... what I was trying to imply was that the content in this document were 'representative' but the actual schema is defined in the spec.proto file .. I'll clean that up.

In this model an extension attribute's name is used as the map *key* and is
associated with its *value* stored in the appropriately typed property.

This approach allows for extensions to be represented and transported
with no loss of *type* information.

## 3. Data

The specification allows for data payloads of the following types to be explicitly represented:

* string
* bytes

> * protobuf object/message

Reviewer: I thought this was a json structure (possibly equivalent to protobuf `Struct`).

Author: Not sure i follow your comment, My intention was to allow the transportation of Proto event data in a way that is more idiomatic for Proto. ie there's no need to marshal the data into a separate field, the pack/unpack feature of `Any` supports this directly.

I'll add an example..

```proto
oneof data_oneof {

    // Binary data
    bytes raw_data = 2;

    // String data
    string text_data = 3;

    // Protobuf Message data

>     google.protobuf.Any proto_data = 4;

Reviewer: I don't think you want to use `Any` here; `Any` is basically a wrapper for a string type and an enveloped message. For CloudEvents, I think it would be more natural to put the message bytes into `raw_data`, and the message type into a CE extension attribute.

Author: See my previous comment ... if I'm dealing natively with protobuf it's not very idiomatic to marshal it separately.

I don't believe the spec calls for all event data to be encoded as a string.

Reviewer: If you look at the various binary encodings, they encode the payload as a simple bytestream (not a string): [HTTP](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0/http-protocol-binding.md#31-binary-content-mode), [Kafka](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0/kafka-protocol-binding.md#32-binary-content-mode), [MQTT](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0/mqtt-protocol-binding.md#22-data), [AMQP](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0/amqp-protocol-binding.md#31-binary-content-mode). [AVRO](https://github.com/cloudevents/spec/blob/v1.0/avro-format.md#3-data) has some funniness, but I wouldn't try to emulate it.

}
```

Before encoding, a protobuf serializer MUST first determine the runtime data type
of the content. This can be determined by examining the data for invalid UTF-8
sequences or by consulting the `datacontenttype` attribute.

> * Where the data is a protobuf message it MUST be stored in the `proto_data`

Reviewer: Why complicate this vs. just using `bytes` (and possibly needing to decode the payload a second time), vs needing to scan the payload to determine which field to put the content into?

Also, is it an error to receive a utf-8 string or a proto message as `raw_data`? If not, this seems like a case where the recipient will know what to do best.

Author: I get your point but I'm not sure it complicates things. My thought process was that it was a bit odd to put textual content into a byte array when Proto allow us to be explicit.

Reviewer: FWIW, the binary encoding of protobuf lets you "Pun" two different protos between different length-delimited field types, like so:

```proto
// Use this type if you are an intermediate router and don't need to care about interpreting or validating payload.
message Envelope {
  string name =1;
  bytes payload = 2;
}

message Data {
  map<string, int32> values = 1;
  double magnitude = 2;
}

// If you are an endpoint node, decode Envelope as Decoded and you can interpret payload as the Data message.
message Decoded {
  string name = 1;
  Data data = 2;
}
```

The main benefit of using `string` vs `bytes` is that Proto will generate the correct types from the auto-generated code, possibly verifying that the string is valid UTF-8 along the way (I don't recall if all implementations verify the UTF-8-ness of the bytestream). The cost is that any proto interpretation which understands the message will unpack and verify all the inner payload fields, whether or not they are used by the application.

property.
* If the implementation determines that the type of the data is text, the value
MUST be stored in the `text_data` property.
* If the implementation determines that the type of the data is binary, the value
MUST be stored in the `raw_data` property.

## 4. Transport

Transports that allow content identification MUST use the following designation:

```text
   application/cloudevents+x-protobuf
```

## 5. Examples

The following code-snippets show how proto representations might be constucted asuming the availability of some convenience methods ...

```java
public static Spec.CloudEvent plainTextExample() {

>     Spec.CloudEvent.Builder ceBuilder = Spec.CloudEvent.newBuilder();

Reviewer: You never define the enclosing CloudEvent type, only `extensions` and `data_oneof`.

Author: Spec.CloudEvent *is* the enclosing type, the example method returns an instance of a CloudEvent.

    }
}
```

In this model an attribute's name is used as the map *key* and is
associated with its *value* stored in the appropriately typed property.

This approach allows for attributes to be represented and transported
with no loss of *type* information.

## 3. Data

The specification allows for data payloads of the following types to be explicitly represented:

* string
* bytes
* protobuf object/message

```proto
oneof data_oneof {

    // Binary data
    bytes binary_data = 2;

    // String data
    string text_data = 3;

    // Protobuf Message data
    google.protobuf.Any proto_data = 4;
}
```

* Where the data is a protobuf message it MUST be stored in the `proto_data`
property; the `dataschema` attribute SHOULD be populated with the URL of the
data's proto type.
* If the implementation determines that the type of the data is text, the value
MUST be stored in the `text_data` property.
* If the implementation determines that the type of the data is binary, the value
MUST be stored in the `binary_data` property.

## 4. Transport

Transports that support content identification MUST use the following designation:

```text
   application/cloudevents+protobuf

> ```

Reviewer 3: I was assuming that this was the binary encoding, given that JSON is already covered.

I'd strongly discourage using textprotos - they're not supported in all languages, and not well-defined externally as far as I'm aware.

Required attributes are represented explicitly as protobuf fields.

## 2.4 Optional Attributes & Extensions

Optional and extension attributes are represented using a map construct enabling
direct support of the CloudEvent [type system][ce-types].

```proto
map<string, CloudEventAttribute> attributes = 1;

message CloudEventAttribute {

    oneof attr_oneof {
      bool ce_boolean = 1;
      sfixed32 ce_integer = 2;
      string ce_string = 3;
      bytes ce_binary = 4;
      string ce_uri = 5;
      string ce_uri_reference = 6;
      google.protobuf.Timestamp ce_timestamp = 7;
    }
}
```

In this model an attribute's name is used as the map *key* and is
associated with its *value* stored in the appropriately typed property.

This approach allows for attributes to be represented and transported
with no loss of *type* information.

## 3. Data

The specification allows for data payloads of the following types to be explicitly represented:

* string
* bytes
* protobuf object/message

```proto
oneof data_oneof {

    // Binary data
    bytes binary_data = 2;

    // String data
    string text_data = 3;

    // Protobuf Message data
    google.protobuf.Any proto_data = 4;
}
```

> * Where the data is a protobuf message it MUST be stored in the `proto_data` property.

Reviewer 4: @evankanderson I think part of my concern is caused by this clause. If a passthrough intermediary (that doesn't know about the target type) receives the message, what's the point in "trying" to populate the 'proto_data' property? Why not just populate the 'binary_data' with the bytes of the serialized proto and pass it on?

I understand the previous comment @JemDay made about natively working with protos and I like that idea. However, I think the spec should allow intermediaries to opt-out when the concrete type is not known.

Author: This seems to be my most contentious proposal ;-) It becomes relevant when moving between formats (eg JSON <-> Proto).

Assuming a JSON formatted CloudEvent (containing a protobuf data payload) is received by an intermediary that wants to output a CE in proto format ...

The required attributes map directly (and hopefully simply).
- The received CE has a `datacontenttype` of `application/protobuf`
- The received CE has a `data_base64` containing the encoded serialized representation.
- The received CE has a 'dataschema` of something like `proto:io.cloudevent.examples.SomeData` (it needs to be a URI)

The intermediary decodes the data_base64 and that becomes the `Any.Builder.setValue()`, the path portion of `dataschema` is passed into `Any.Builder.setTypeUrl().

I believe that works ...

structure and metadata description of events. This specification defines how the
elements defined in the CloudEvents specification are are represented using
a protobuf schema.

The [Attributes](#2-attributes) section describes the naming conventions and
data type mappings for CloudEvents attributes for use as protobuf message
properties.

The [Data](#3-data) section describes how the event payload is carried.

### 1.1. Conformance

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC2119][rfc2119].

### 1.2 Content-Type

There is no official IANA *media-type* designation for protobuf, as such this
specification uses 'application/protobuf' to identify such content.

## 2. Attributes

This section defines how CloudEvents attributes are represented in the protobuf
[schema][proto-schema].

## 2.1 Type System

The CloudEvents type system is mapped to protobuf as follows :

| CloudEvents   | protobuf |
| ------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Boolean       | [boolean][proto-scalars] |

> | Integer       | [sint32][proto-scalars] |

Reviewer 3: `sint32` is very rarely used within Google; we normally stick to `int32`. While `sint32` is more compact for negative numbers, it's (potentially) larger for non-negative numbers.

Reviewer 3: (I note that it *is* `int32` in the spec.proto file.)

Reviewer: (I suggested the switch to `int32`, but I think it only got corrected in the `.proto` file. It seems like we should make sure that changes in the `.proto` get reflected back into the text document.)

Author: Ack

| String        | [string][proto-scalars] |
| Binary        | [bytes][proto-scalars] |
| URI           | [string][proto-scalars] following [RFC 3986 §4.3][rfc3986-section43]|
| URI-reference | [string][proto-scalars] following [RFC 3986 §4.1][rfc3986-section41] |
| Timestamp     | [Timestamp][proto-timestamp]  |

## 2.3 Required Attributes

Required attributes are represented explicitly as protobuf fields.

## 2.4 Optional Attributes & Extensions

Optional and extension attributes are represented using a map construct enabling
direct support of the CloudEvent [type system][ce-types].

```proto
map<string, CloudEventAttribute> attribute = 1;

message CloudEventAttribute {

    oneof attr_oneof {
      bool ce_boolean = 1;

>       sfixed32 ce_integer = 2;

Reviewer 3: This is in contrast to the `sint32` above. I'd suggest just `int32` though.

Reviewer: This is `int32` in the proto as well.

Author: Ack

      string ce_string = 3;
      bytes ce_binary = 4;
      string ce_uri = 5;
      string ce_uri_reference = 6;
      google.protobuf.Timestamp ce_timestamp = 7;
    }
}
```

In this model an attribute's name is used as the map *key* and is
associated with its *value* stored in the appropriately typed property.

This approach allows for attributes to be represented and transported

> with no loss of *type* information.

Reviewer 3: Unlike the JSON format, presumably - where for an extension attribute (where we don't necessarily know the type inherently in the way that we do for the built-in attributes) we don't know whether a given attribute value is a string that also happens to be a URI but shouldn't be treated as one, or is *really* intended to be a URI. (Hope that makes sense...)

I think we're missing some detail in terms of requirements of a CloudEvent format - when designing one, it would be nice to have guidance about what's required, desirable etc.

## 3. Data

The specification allows for data payloads of the following types to be explicitly represented:

* string
* bytes
* protobuf object/message

```proto
oneof data_oneof {

    // Binary data
    bytes binary_data = 2;

    // String data
    string text_data = 3;

    // Protobuf Message data
    google.protobuf.Any proto_data = 4;

> }

Reviewer 3: I think it's at least worth *considering* a field of

```text
Value json_data = 5;
```

`Value` is intended to be "any JSON" value; compare that with `Struct` which is "a JSON object".

If we're trying to convert from a JSON formatted event with a JSON payload to a Protobuf-formatted event with the same payload, `Value` would be a more "native" representation than `string` in my view. But we really need to work out the use cases here.

Reviewer 3: (Note that this would avoid any confusion between a text payload that happens to be valid JSON, and one which was designed to be JSON.)

```

* Where the data is a protobuf message it MUST be stored in the `proto_data` property.
  * `datacontenttype` MAY be populated with `application/protobuf`
  * `dataschema` SHOULD be populated with the type URL of the protobuf data message.

> * When the type of the data is text, the value MUST be stored in the `text_data` property.

Reviewer 3: It's not really clear what's meant by "the type of the data" here - does JSON data count as text by default, for example?

  * `datacontenttype` SHOULD be popuplated with the appropriate media-type.

* When the type of the data is binary the value MUST be stored in the `binary_data` property.
  * `datacontenttype` SHOULD be populated with the appropriate media-type.

## 4. Transport

Transports that support content identification MUST use the following designation:

```text
   application/cloudevents+protobuf
```

## 5. Examples

> The following code-snippets shows how proto representations might be constucted asuming the availability of some convenience methods ...

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following code-snippets shows how proto representations might be constructed assuming the availability of some convenience methods ...
```

    .setId(UUID.randomUUID().toString())
    .setSpecVersion("1.0")
    .setType("io.cloudevent.example")
    .setSource("producer-1")

    //-- Data.
    .setTextData("This is a plain text message");

    //-- Optional Attributes
    withCurrentTime(ceBuilder, "time");
    withAttribute(ceBuilder, "datacontenttype", "text/plain");

    // Build it.
    return ceBuilder.build();
}

```

### 5.2 Proto message as event data

Where the event data payload is itself a protobuf message (with its own schema)
a protocol buffer idiomatic method can be used to carry the data.

```java
private static Spec.CloudEvent protoExample() {

  //-- Build an event data protobuf object.
  Test.SomeData.Builder dataBuilder = Test.SomeData.newBuilder();

  dataBuilder
    .setSomeText("this is an important message")
    .setIsImportant(true);

  //-- Build the CloudEvent.
  Spec.CloudEvent.Builder ceBuilder = Spec.CloudEvent.newBuilder();

  ceBuilder
    .setId(UUID.randomUUID().toString())
    .setSpecVersion("1.0")
    .setType("io.cloudevent.example")
    .setSource("producer-2")

    // Add the proto data into the CloudEvent envelope.
    .setProtoData(Any.pack(dataBuilder.build()));

>     // Add the protto type URL

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    // Add the proto type URL
```

>     withAttribute(ceBuilder, "dataschema", ceBuilder.getProtoData().getTypeUrl());

Reviewer 3: I'm not keen on `with` as a name - I'd prefer `set`. I generally expect a `with` method to return a new instance with the specified change applied, leaving the original object as it was before.

interchangeably.

## Status of this document

This document is a working draft.

## Table of Contents

1. [Introduction](#1-introduction)
2. [Attributes](#2-attributes)
3. [Data](#3-data)
4. [Transport](#4-transport)
5. [Examples](#5-examples)

## 1. Introduction

[CloudEvents][ce] is a standardized and protocol-agnostic definition of the
structure and metadata description of events. This specification defines how the
elements defined in the CloudEvents specification are are represented using
a protobuf schema. The  [schema][proto-schema] defines an envolope/body
construct similar to that prescriped in the [JSON format][json-format].

The [Attributes](#2-attributes) section describes the naming conventions and
data type mappings for CloudEvents attributes for use as protobuf message
properties.

### 1.1. Conformance

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD",
"SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC2119][rfc2119].

### 1.2 Content-Type

There is no official IANA *media-type* designation for protobuf, as such this

> specification uses 'application/x-protobuf' to identify such content.

Reviewer 5: There was a draft for protobuf media type here: https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-rfernando-protocol-buffers-00.
We recently decided in our company to use the media type `application/protobuf` proposed in the draft above. 
Would you mind switching to that definition instead of the proposed `application/x-protobuf`?

```suggestion
specification uses 'application/protobuf' to identify such content based on the draft [Encoding rules and MIME type for Protocol Buffers](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-rfernando-protocol-buffers-00).
```

Author: Hi,

I certainly think this warrants further discussion, i've seen both application/protobuf and application/x-prototbuf used.

Looking at [Spring for example](https://docs.spring.io/spring-framework/docs/current/javadoc-api/org/springframework/http/converter/protobuf/ProtobufHttpMessageConverter.html) they appear to use the x-prototbuf.

I'm not sure there's one correct answer to this :-(

Reviewer 5: Sorry, my mistake - we mainly thought about the `datacontenttype` attribute.

I think the proposal made in the call today to use `application/cloudevents+protobuf` for the `Content-Type` http header field for structured mode is reasonable.

@JemDay : You can ignore my suggested change.
